---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Continuous Integration
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-05-11
labels:
  - JavaScript
  - HEI
  - Customer-Developer Relations
  - Coding Standards
  - Continuous Development
---


## Having a Taste of the Field

Being an undergraduate student, having the "feel" of the industry is still foreign and seems like an eternity away. Classrooms try their best to simulate assignments that can be applicable to the real world, but it always comes off as just another assignmnent to complete rather than a career project. However, after taking Software Engineering II, the methodology of continuous development felt real and authentic. This was the first experience I had working with a real company that pitched a project to the class and allowed us to take the reins and create our interpretation of their idea. Regular customer presentations, code reviews, bi-weekly team meetings, the entire experience was set up to simulate what an industry career will hold. 


## Enthusiasm and Burnout

One of the biggest surprises to me throughout the development was my attitude towards the project. At first, I was bustling and excited to finally work with a team on what felt like an application that had weight to it and could be used in the real world. I was excited to get my hands on it and show off everything I had learned! The first month flew by and the appliaction was finally starting to come into place. It was like watching a baby grow into a toddler. The second month arrived and went, the project only looked better. All of our ideas were mostly integrated and we added on our flare to it to distinguish it from the other groups. However, I was ignorant to realize the more time I spent working on development, the more I was tiring myself out. Although I was still proud of the development and the progress my team and I made on the application, I was only burning myself out in regards to coding. 

I'm not the proudest to say that I had lost the enthusiasm I had at the start of the semester. After working on the project for four months, I was tired of the meetings and wanted to prioritize other courses and unrelated school work. This turned into a love-hate relationship whenever doing new features and integrations. I had to force myself to get the job done and begin working on it. However, I now realize this was due to my own ignorance in time-management and work-life balance. The starry-eyed perspective I had burnt out to a dim light. 

## It's Only Up From Here

The biggest takeaway I have from this experience is my methodology of balancing work and my own life. I've always heard stories of individuals being consumed by work and having that spiral; however, I never thought I'd fall into the same trap. I'm glad to have done so now rather than later. I was able to identify the flaw of my approach and regain my passion towards the project, albeit a little late. My group and I had a discussion of our thoughts of the project and came out having similar feelings. It was an exhilarating feeling presenting our application progress towards real professionals bi-monthly. That feeling was present in the very first meeting and stayed until the very last one. Although it will never be easier presenting our idea in fear of ridicule and dislike, it was a necessary growing experience to be able to convey our ideas and thoughts. Personally, as I was the one presenting to the customers every meeting for my group, I was able to increase my people and presentation skills. I believe during the first meeting, I was lacking in descriptions and had anxiety take over my confidence in presenting ideas and features in positive spins. However, during the last meeting, I was able describe each feature and sell our project to the best of my ability. 

Taking the course and learning from everything will be something I remember for years to come. It's an invaluable experience that shapes myself as a soon-to-be graduated computer science student. Being able to learn from my low-points and failures is how I'll recover and avoid those pitfalls in the future. Life and work is a marathon, I don't have to always be sprinting. It's about working at a pace that fits me and the time-constraints. 